# Interview Prep

These are some questions I have done while preparing for coding rounds or interview.

## [Number of Islands](https://leetcode.com/problems/number-of-islands/)

Given a 2d grid map of '1's (land) and '0's (water), count the number of islands. An island is surrounded by water and is formed by connecting adjacent lands horizontally or vertically. You may assume all four edges of the grid are all surrounded by water.

Example 1:
```
Input: grid = [
  ["1","1","1","1","0"],
  ["1","1","0","1","0"],
  ["1","1","0","0","0"],
  ["0","0","0","0","0"]
]
Output: 1
```
Example 2:
```
Input: grid = [
  ["1","1","0","0","0"],
  ["1","1","0","0","0"],
  ["0","0","1","0","0"],
  ["0","0","0","1","1"]
]
Output: 3
```

## [Minimum Domino Rotations For Equal Row](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-domino-rotations-for-equal-row/)

In a row of dominoes, A[i] and B[i] represent the top and bottom halves of the i-th domino.  (A domino is a tile with two numbers from 1 to 6 - one on each half of the tile.)

We may rotate the i-th domino, so that A[i] and B[i] swap values.

Return the minimum number of rotations so that all the values in A are the same, or all the values in B are the same.

If it cannot be done, return -1.

Example 1:
```
Input: A = [2,1,2,4,2,2], B = [5,2,6,2,3,2]
Output: 2
Explanation: 
The first figure represents the dominoes as given by A and B: before we do any rotations.
If we rotate the second and fourth dominoes, we can make every value in the top row equal to 2, as indicated by the second figure.
```
Example 2:
```
Input: A = [3,5,1,2,3], B = [3,6,3,3,4]
Output: -1
Explanation: 
In this case, it is not possible to rotate the dominoes to make one row of values equal.
```

Note:

- 1 <= A[i], B[i] <= 6
- 2 <= A.length == B.length <= 20000

## [Find Peak Element](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-peak-element/)

A peak element is an element that is greater than its neighbors.

Given an input array nums, where nums[i] ≠ nums[i+1], find a peak element and return its index.

The array may contain multiple peaks, in that case return the index to any one of the peaks is fine.

You may imagine that `nums[-1]` = `nums[n]` = `-∞`.

Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [1,2,3,1]
Output: 2
Explanation: 3 is a peak element and your function should return the index number 2.
```
Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [1,2,1,3,5,6,4]
Output: 1 or 5 
Explanation: Your function can return either index number 1 where the peak element is 2, 
             or index number 5 where the peak element is 6.
```
Follow up: Your solution should be in logarithmic complexity.

## [Backspace String Compare](https://leetcode.com/problems/backspace-string-compare/)

Given two strings S and T, return if they are equal when both are typed into empty text editors. `#` means a backspace character.

Note that after backspacing an empty text, the text will continue empty.

Example 1:
```
Input: S = "ab#c", T = "ad#c"
Output: true
Explanation: Both S and T become "ac".
```
Example 2:
```
Input: S = "ab##", T = "c#d#"
Output: true
Explanation: Both S and T become "".
```
Example 3:
```
Input: S = "a##c", T = "#a#c"
Output: true
Explanation: Both S and T become "c".
```
Example 4:
```
Input: S = "a#c", T = "b"
Output: false
Explanation: S becomes "c" while T becomes "b".
```
Note:
- 1 <= S.length <= 200
- 1 <= T.length <= 200
- S and T only contain lowercase letters and '#' characters.

Follow up:
- Can you solve it in O(N) time and O(1) space?

## [Contains Duplicate II](https://leetcode.com/problems/contains-duplicate-ii/)

Given an array of integers and an integer k, find out whether there are two distinct indices i and j in the array such that nums[i] = nums[j] and the absolute difference between i and j is at most k.

Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [1,2,3,1], k = 3
Output: true
```
Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [1,0,1,1], k = 1
Output: true
```
Example 3:
```
Input: nums = [1,2,3,1,2,3], k = 2
Output: false
```

## [Find the Difference](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-the-difference/)

Given two strings s and t which consist of only lowercase letters.

String t is generated by random shuffling string s and then add one more letter at a random position.

Find the letter that was added in t.

Example:
```
Input:
s = "abcd"
t = "abcde"

Output:
e

Explanation:
'e' is the letter that was added.
```

## [Majority Element](https://leetcode.com/problems/majority-element/)

Given an array of size n, find the majority element. The majority element is the element that appears more than ⌊ n/2 ⌋ times.

You may assume that the array is non-empty and the majority element always exist in the array.

Example 1:
```
Input: [3,2,3]
Output: 3
```
Example 2:
```
Input: [2,2,1,1,1,2,2]
Output: 2
```

## [Letter Combinations of a Phone Number](https://leetcode.com/problems/letter-combinations-of-a-phone-number/)

Given a string containing digits from 2-9 inclusive, return all possible letter combinations that the number could represent.

A mapping of digit to letters (just like on the telephone buttons) is given below. Note that 1 does not map to any letters.

Example:
```
Input: "23"
Output: ["ad", "ae", "af", "bd", "be", "bf", "cd", "ce", "cf"].
```
Note:
- Although the above answer is in lexicographical order, your answer could be in any order you want.


## [Find All Numbers Disappeared in an Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/find-all-numbers-disappeared-in-an-array/)

Given an array of integers where 1 ≤ a[i] ≤ n (n = size of array), some elements appear twice and others appear once.

Find all the elements of [1, n] inclusive that do not appear in this array.

Could you do it without extra space and in O(n) runtime? You may assume the returned list does not count as extra space.

Example:
```
Input:
[4,3,2,7,8,2,3,1]

Output:
[5,6]
```
## [Container With Most Water](https://leetcode.com/problems/container-with-most-water/)

Given n non-negative integers a1, a2, ..., an , where each represents a point at coordinate (i, ai). n vertical lines are drawn such that the two endpoints of line i is at (i, ai) and (i, 0). Find two lines, which together with x-axis forms a container, such that the container contains the most water.

Note: You may not slant the container and n is at least 2.

Example:
```
Input: [1,8,6,2,5,4,8,3,7]
Output: 49
```

## [Battleships in a Board](https://leetcode.com/problems/battleships-in-a-board/)

Given an 2D board, count how many battleships are in it. The battleships are represented with 'X's, empty slots are represented with '.'s. You may assume the following rules:
- You receive a valid board, made of only battleships or empty slots.
- Battleships can only be placed horizontally or vertically. In other words, they can only be made of the shape 1xN (1 row, N columns) or Nx1 (N rows, 1 column), where N can be of any size.
- At least one horizontal or vertical cell separates between two battleships - there are no adjacent battleships.

Example:
```
X..X
...X
...X
```
In the above board there are 2 battleships.

**Invalid Example:**
```
...X
XXXX
...X
```
This is an invalid board that you will not receive - as battleships will always have a cell separating between them.

Follow up:
- Could you do it in one-pass, using only O(1) extra memory and without modifying the value of the board?

## [Flipping an Image](https://leetcode.com/problems/flipping-an-image/)

Given a binary matrix A, we want to flip the image horizontally, then invert it, and return the resulting image.

To flip an image horizontally means that each row of the image is reversed.  For example, flipping [1, 1, 0] horizontally results in [0, 1, 1].

To invert an image means that each 0 is replaced by 1, and each 1 is replaced by 0. For example, inverting [0, 1, 1] results in [1, 0, 0].

Example 1:
```
Input: [[1,1,0],[1,0,1],[0,0,0]]
Output: [[1,0,0],[0,1,0],[1,1,1]]
Explanation: First reverse each row: [[0,1,1],[1,0,1],[0,0,0]].
Then, invert the image: [[1,0,0],[0,1,0],[1,1,1]]
```
Example 2:
```
Input: [[1,1,0,0],[1,0,0,1],[0,1,1,1],[1,0,1,0]]
Output: [[1,1,0,0],[0,1,1,0],[0,0,0,1],[1,0,1,0]]
Explanation: First reverse each row: [[0,0,1,1],[1,0,0,1],[1,1,1,0],[0,1,0,1]].
Then invert the image: [[1,1,0,0],[0,1,1,0],[0,0,0,1],[1,0,1,0]]
```
Notes:
- `1 <= A.length = A[0].length <= 20`
- `0 <= A[i][j] <= 1`

## [Kth Largest Element in an Array](https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-largest-element-in-an-array/)

Find the kth largest element in an unsorted array. Note that it is the kth largest element in the sorted order, not the kth distinct element.

Example 1:
```
Input: [3,2,1,5,6,4] and k = 2
Output: 5
```
Example 2:
```
Input: [3,2,3,1,2,4,5,5,6] and k = 4
Output: 4
```
Note:
- You may assume k is always valid, 1 ≤ k ≤ array's length.





